
Author: Ben West
Website: http://bitbucket.org/bewest/xmonad-bewest-config
This repo will configure xmonad on ubuntu.

QUICK GUIDE
   $ make install
   $ mkdir -p ~/bin ; cp xmonad.start ~/bin/xmonad.start
   Log out, select the xmonad with your user name from GDM. DONE.

I use it to sync xmonad configs on any ubuntu computer I'm using as a desktop.
If you've got xmonad and ubuntu installed and up to date, this will get you up
and running with xmonad in about five minutes.

Ubuntu ships with a reasonable gnome setup.  This includes using Nautilus in a
Windows/Mac style bid to control many facets of the UI.  Nautilus opens up a
window that will hover over all other windows.  You can move it around by
holding meta ( ALT ), holding mouse three and dragging the window.  The make
file includes handy targets to control this feature of Nautilus.

Ubuntu's startup is a complicated process.  The method we use is to install a
desktop description file in the canonical location [ /usr/share/xsessions ].
This makes it available to you as a selection when GDM asks you to log in.
The desktop description tells GDM to use a script of our making.  It serves
the same purpose as all those xsession / xinit and myriad variations.

Configuring XMonad
I use the defaults.
Here is the entire file:
-------------------------

import XMonad

main = xmonad defaultConfig
     {
       terminal = "xterm"
     }

------
-- EOF

Make targets:
  show-nautilus-desktop
    Issue a command that tells Nautilus to turn it's desktop feature back on.
  hide-nautilus-desktop
    Issue a command that tells Nautilus to turn it's desktop feature OFF.
  install
    Generate and Install our desktop file, disable the Nautilus desktop. 
    Install our xmonad.hs in the right place.
  desktop
    Show the results of generating a desktop file.


Things Worth Knowing
The run script here starts gnome-session and xmonad.  We've taken care of
Nautilus because that window thingy is completely crippling.  But gnome does
do a couple of other things you should know how to handle.

When you first log in, you will be in window 1.  Window 1 will fill up with
all the desktop panels that gnome's window manager would ordinarily stick up
near the edges of the screen.  Here's the method I use to correct the
situation:
  1. Move the window using ALT-MOUSE3 and dragging the window.  This tells
  xmonad that this is not a floating window, not a tiled window.
  2. Right click / MOUSE2 to open the Properties dialog from the context menu
  that flies out.
  3. Select Expand
  4. Select Expand

This procedure basically jostles the window out of xmonad's tiling scheme, and
triggers a redrawing of those windows.  When the redrawing happens, they
usually figure out where they belong.  Occasionally I need to drag it near the
edge after they flatten out and trigger their redrawing again.

I like having Ubuntu/Debian's system menus available.  xmonad will work with
dmenu and dzen to give you a floating clock and autocompletion.  However, I
typically find that I need a controlling terminal for many of my special
applications.

Workspace  
  * 1  : System Administrivia.  I usually keep an xterm scaled down to small or
    tiny tailing some logs, another xterm for launching stuff, and synaptic in
    the main area.  I also browse the Ubuntu system menus from here.

  * 2  : System Control.  I run several instances of different firefox profiles
    concurrently so that I can manage the cookie jars very carefully.  I need
    a controlling terminal to do that.  Other activities that need a window
    for a short while, but not full screen ( some windows look better half
    screen ) go here.  There's typically time to execute a command and then
    switch to the workspace I want before the window pops up.  If not,
    alt-shifting it over isn't hard.

  * 3  : GMail and most browsing.  Here is usually where I use the layout
    switching ( alt-space ).  I like to manage 2 firefox windows.  Sometimes
    they go side by side ( default ), but other times, I want full screen
    firefox.  I alt-space a few times to get full screen layout and then shift
    the rotation to get the one I want.

  * 4  : Editing. 2 or 3 xterms
  * 5-0: Overflow for editing or applications I just leave lying around.
    I don't keep track of what happens out here.

EOF
